Newsletters: add 283 (2024-01-03) (#1451)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-01-03-newsletter.md

  consider upgrading immediately due to these vulnerabilities and other
  known vulnerabilities affecting older releases.  In brief, the two
  disclosed vulnerabilities were:

    - A DoS vulnerability that could have led to LND running out of
      memory and crashing.  If LND is not running, it can't broadcast
      time sensitive transactions, which can lead to loss of funds.

    - A censorship vulnerability that could allow an attacker to prevent
      an LND node from learning about updates to targeted channels
      across the network.  An attacker could use this to bias a node
      towards selecting certain routes for payments it sent, giving the
      attacker more forwarding fees and more information about the
      payments the node sent.

  Gögge made his initial disclosure to the LND developers over two years
  ago and versions of LND containing fixes for both vulnerabilities have
  been available for over 18 months.  Optech is unaware of any users who
  were affected by either vulnerability.

- **Fee-dependent timelocks:** John Law [posted][law fdt] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev and Lightning-Dev mailing lists with a rough proposal for

>   a soft fork that could allow transaction time locks to optionally only

Author: Wow, I forget we had that topic.  I bet I've missed adding lots of stuff to it.  Will have to fix that at another time.  Thanks!

  unlock (expire) when median block feerates are below a user-chosen
  level.  For example, Alice wants to deposit money into a payment
  channel with Bob, but she also wants to be able to receive a refund if
  Bob becomes unavailable, so she gives him the option to claim any
  funds she pays him at any time but also gives herself the option to
  claim a refund of her deposit after a time lock expires.  As the time
  lock expiration approaches, Bob attempts to claim his funds but

>   typical feerates are much higher than he and Alice expected when they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  current feerates are much higher than he and Alice expected when they
```

  started using their contract.  Bob is unable to get the transaction
  claiming his funds confirmed, either because he doesn't have access to

>   enough bitcoins to spend on fees or because it would be cost

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  enough bitcoins to spend on fees or because it would be cost-prohibitive
```

  prohibitive to crate a claim transaction given the high feerates.  In
  the current Bitcoin protocol, Bob being unable to act would allow
  Alice to claim her refund.  With Law's proposal, the expiration of the

>   timelock that prevents Alice from claiming her refund would be delayed

Author: Not intentional.  My fingers are confused: I've previously preferred the one-word version but @murchandamus used the two word version in bip-bikeshed, which is what I used for Mastering Bitcoin.  Switching everything here to use the one-word version consistent with our past newsletters; we should discuss switching to the two-word version in the future.

  until there had been a series of blocks with median feerates below
  an amount specified by Alice and Bob when they negotiated their
  contract.  This would ensure Bob had a chance to get his transaction
  confirmed at an acceptable feerate.

    <!-- FIXME:harding optionally add topic about forced expiration spam/flood before we publish, also maybe Ark -->

    Law notes that this addresses one of the longstanding concerns noted
    in the [original Lightning Network paper][] about _forced expiration
    floods_ where too many channels all closing simultaneously may
    result in there not being enough block space for all of them to be
    confirmed before their timelocks expire, potentially resulting in
    some users losing money.  With fee-dependent timelocks in place,
    users of the closed channels will simply bid up the feerates until
    they exceed the fee-dependent lock, after which expiry of the

>     timelocks will be delayed until fees have come down to an amount low

Author: Leaving this as-is.  I think the more verbose version is a little easier to read due to not introducing the term "timelock expiry".

    enough that all of the transactions paying that feerate have been
    confirmed.  LN channels currently only involve two users each, but
    proposals such as [channel factories][topic channel factories] and
    [joinpools][topic joinpools] where more than two users share a UTXO
    are even more vulnerable to forced expiration floods, so this
    solution significantly bolsters their security.  Law also notes
    that, in at least some of those constructions, the party that holds
    the refund condition (e.g. Alice in our earlier example) is the one

>     most disadvantaged by fees increasing, given their capital is locked

Author: Leaving as-is.  Alice is only mentioned in a parenthetical example, so I don't think we should give the pronoun her gender.  Without the parenthetical, the sentence reads: "the party that holds the refund condition is the one most disadvantaged by fees increasing, given their capital..."

That sounds correct and customary to me, both in 1950s English and 2020s English.

  from the design of [cluster mempool][topic cluster mempool] to improve
  fee estimation in Bitcoin Core.  The current fee estimation algorithm
  in Bitcoin Core tracks the number of blocks it takes transactions
  entering the local node's mempool to become confirmed.  When
  confirmation happens, the transaction's feerate is used to update a
  prediction of how long it will take transactions with similar feerates
  to become confirmed.

    In that approach, some transactions are ignored by Bitcoin Core for
    feerate purposes, while others are potentially miscounted.  This is
    a result of [CPFP][topic cpfp], where child transactions (and other
    descendants) incentivize miners to confirm their parents (and other
    ancestors).  Child transactions may have a high feerate by
    themselves, but when their fee and their ancestors' fees are
    considered together, the feerate might be significantly lower,
    leading them to take longer to confirm than expected.  To prevent
    that from causing overestimation of reasonable fees, Bitcoin Core
    does not update its fee estimations using any transaction that

>     enters the mempool when its parent is unconfirmed.  Correspondingly,

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think "enters the mempool with an unconfirmed parent" sounds like they both arrived together in a package.

  must be set to a unspendable key.

    Ingala describes several challenges to using unspendable keys in
    descriptors and several proposed solutions with different tradeoffs.
    Pieter Wuille summarizes several recent in-person discussions about
    descriptors, including a [particular][wuille undesc2] idea about
    unspendable keys.  Josie Baker asks for details about why the
    unspendable key can't be a constant value (such as the
    nothing-up-my-sleeve (NUMS) point in BIP341), which would allow
    everyone to immediately know that an unspendable key was used---a
    possible advantage to some protocols, such as [silent
    payments][topic silent payments].  Ingala replies to Baker that "it
    is a form of fingerprinting. You can always reveal this information
    yourself if you want/need it, but it’s great if the standards don’t
    force you to do so."  Wuille further replies with an algorithm for
    generating the proof.  In the last post in the thread at the time of
    writing, Ingala notes that some of the work of specifying policies
    related to unspendable keys can be split between descriptors and
    [BIP388][] wallet policies.

> - **V3 transaction pinning costs:** Peter Todd [posted][todd v3] to the

Reviewer 3: FYI via Peter Todd:

"BTW I corrected my numbers a bit with a follow-up post: https://petertodd.org/2023/v3-txs-pinning-vulnerability"

  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list an analysis of the proposed [v3 transaction
  relay][topic v3 transaction relay] policy on [transaction pinning][topic

>   transaction pinning] for contract protocols such as LN.  For example,

Author: Keeping as-is, but feel free to edit before merging.  The example is chosen so that it applies both now and with v3 tx relay.  A few sentences later, when we discuss Bitcoin Core's current rules (plus package relay), we say "Using Bitcoin Core's current default...".  Then, in the next paragraph when we looking at the effect of v3 rules, we introduce that by saying "In the v3 ...".

>   Bob and Mallory may share an LN channel.  Bob wants to close a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Bob and Mallory may share an LN channel.  Bob wants to close the
```

  channel, so he broadcasts his current commitment transaction plus a
  small child transaction that contributes fees through [CPFP][topic
  cpfp], with a total size of 500 vbytes.  Mallory detects Bob's
  transactions on the P2P network before they have reached any miners
  and sends her own commitment transaction plus a very large child

>   transaction, giving her two transaction a combined size of 100,000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  transaction, giving her two transactions a combined size of 100,000
```

  vbytes with a combined feerate lower than Bob's original version.
  Using Bitcoin Core's current default relay policy and the current
  proposal for [package relay][topic package relay], Bob can attempt to
  [replace][topic rbf] Mallory's two transactions but he'll need to pay
  for the bandwidth used by Mallory's transaction according to
  [BIP125][] rule #3.  If Bob originally used a feerate of 10 sat/vbyte
  (5,000 sats total) and Mallory's alternative used a feerate of 5
  sat/vbyte (500,000 sats total), Bob will need to pay 100 times more in
  his replacement than he originally paid.  If that's more than Bob is
  willing to pay, Mallory's large and low-feerate transaction may not
  confirm before a critical timelock expires and allows Mallory to steal
  money from Bob.

>     In the v3 transaction relay proposal, the rules only allow a
>     transaction opting in to the v3 policy to have a maximum of one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the v3 transaction relay proposal, the rules allow a
    transaction opting in to the v3 policy to only have a maximum of one
```

>     transaction opting in to the v3 policy to have a maximum of one

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    transaction opting into the v3 policy to have a maximum of one
```

>     In the v3 transaction relay proposal, the rules only allow a
>     transaction opting in to the v3 policy to have a maximum of one

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In the v3 transaction relay proposal, the rules restrict a
    transaction opting into the v3 policy to have a maximum of one
```

    unconfirmed child transaction that will be relayed, stored in
    mempools, and mined by nodes that agree to follow the v3 policy.  As
    Peter Todd shows in his post, that would still allow Mallory to
    increase Bob's costs by about 2.5 times what he wanted to pay.
    Respondents largely agreed that there was a risk that Bob might need
    to pay up to 2.5 times more in the case of a malicious

>     counterparty, but they noted that 2.5x is a lot better than the 100x

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    counterparty, but they noted that 2.5x is much better than the 100x
```

    or more that Bob might need to pay under the current relay rules.

    Additional discussion in the conversation discussed specifics of the
    v3 relay rules, [ephemeral anchors][topic ephemeral anchors], and
    how they compare to currently-available [CPFP carve-out][topic cpfp
    carve out] and [anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs].

- **Descriptors in PSBT draft BIP:** the SeedHammer team
  [posted][seedhammer descpsbt] a draft BIP to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing
  list for including [descriptors][topic descriptors] in [PSBTs][topic
  psbt].  The main intended use seems to be encapsulating descriptors in
  the PSBT format for transfer between wallets, as the proposed standard
  allows PSBTs to omit transaction data when a descriptor is enclosed.
  This could be useful for a software wallet to transfer output
  information to a hardware signing device or for multiple wallets in a
  multisig federation to transfer information about the outputs they

>   want to create.  As of this writing, the draft BIP had not received

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  want to create.  As of this writing, the draft BIP has not received
```

  program execution verification.  Elftrace works with programs compiled
  for the RISC-V architecture using Linux's [ELF][] format; almost any
  programmer can easily create programs for that target, making using
  elftrace highly accessible.  The forum post hasn't received any
  replies as of this writing.

- **Pool exit payment batching with delegation using fraud proofs:**
  Salvatore Ingala [posted][ingala exit] to Delving Bitcoin a proposal
  that can improve multiparty contracts where several users share a
  UTXO, such as a [joinpool][topic joinpools] or [channel factory][topic
  channel factories], and some of the users want to exit the contract at
  a time when other users are unresponsive (whether unintentionally or
  deliberately).  The typical way to construct such protocols is by
  giving each user an offchain transaction that the user can broadcast
  in case they want to exit.  That means, even in the best case, if five
  users want to exit, they each need to broadcast a separate
  transaction, and each of those transactions will have at least one
  input and one output---a total of five inputs and five outputs.

>   Ingala suggests a way those users could effect a single exit with a

Reviewer: I think "effect" is right here. I read it in the sense of "to bring about".

>   Ingala suggests a way those users could effect a single exit with a

Reviewer 2: I think effect is correct. "affect a single exit" would mean modifying the single exit in some way.

The way "effect" is used here is to "bring about" which the dictionary (at least the default Google one) gives as the definition of the verb form of effect.

  single transaction that could have a single input and five outputs,
  giving them the typical [payment batching][topic payment batching]
  reduction in transaction size by about 50%.

  In complex multiparty contracts with very large numbers of users, the
  reduction in onchain size can easily be significantly larger than 50%.
  Even better, if the five active users simply wanted to move their
  funds to a new shared UTXO involving just them, they could use a
  single-input and single-output transaction, saving about 80% in the
  case of five users or about 99% in the case of a hundred users.  That
  huge savings for large groups of users moving their funds from one
  contract to another may be critical when transaction feerates are high
  and many users have relatively small balances in the contract. For

>   example 100 users each have a balance of 10,000 sats ($4 USD at the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  example, 100 users each have a balance of 10,000 sats ($4 USD at the
```

  time of writing); if they each individually had to pay transaction
  fees to exit the contract and enter a new contract, then even with an
  improbably small spending transaction size of 100 vbytes, a
  transaction fee of 100 sats/vbyte would consume their entire balance.

>   If they are able to move their combined funds of 1 million sats in a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If they can move their combined funds of 1 million sats in a
```

>   single 200 vbyte transaction at 100 sats/vbyte, then each individual
>   user will only pay 200 sats (2% of their balance).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  single 200 vbyte transaction at 100 sats/vbyte, then each
  user will pay only 200 sats (2% of their balance).
```

    The payment batching is accomplished by having one of the
    participants in the multiparty contract protocol construct a spend
    of the shared funds to the outputs agreed upon by the other active
    participants.  The contract allows this---but only if the
    constructing party funds a bond that they will forfeit if anyone can
    prove that they spent the contract protocol's funds incorrectly; the
    bond amount should be considerably more than the constructing party
    can gain from attempting an incorrect transfer of funds.  If no one
    generates a fraud proof showing the constructing party acted
    inappropriately within a period of time, the bond is refunded to the
    constructing party.  Ingala roughly describes how this feature could
    be added to a multiparty contract protocol using [OP_CAT][],
    `OP_CHECKCONTRACTVERIFY`, and amount introspection from the proposed

>     [MATT][] soft fork, with him noting that it would be easier with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [MATT][] soft fork, and noted that it would be easier with the
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  There's a conjunctive "and" a few words earlier also following a comma and I don't want this clause to look like a list item.

    addition also of [OP_CSFS][topic op_checksigfromstack] and 64-bit
    arithmetic operators in tapscript.

    The idea has received a small amount of discussion as of this
    writing.

- **New coin selection strategies:** Mark Erhardt [posted][erhardt coin]
  to Delving Bitcoin about edge-cases users may have experienced with
  Bitcoin Core's [coin selection][topic coin selection] strategy and

>   proposes two new strategies, plus a method of choosing the best
>   strategy from among those available.  He also summaries the benefits

Reviewer: This sounds like it’s a new proposal, but we have been using the waste metric as a method of choosing an input set from all input set candidates for multiple major releases.

```suggestion
  proposes two new strategies.
  He also summaries the benefits
```

Perhaps it could be added that the two new algorithms both aim to reduce input set size at high feerates and thus improve the mentioned edge-cases.

  and drawbacks of all the strategies for Bitcoin Core, both those
  implemented and those he has proposed, and then provides multiple
  results from simulations he performed using the different algorithms.
  The ultimate goal is for Bitcoin Core to generally select the set of
  inputs that will minimize the percentage of UTXO value that is spent

>   to fees over the long term, while also not creating unnecessarily

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  on fees over the long term, while also not creating unnecessarily
```

  BitcoinHeaders.net to the latest API.  Header retrieval over DNS helps
  protect nodes from [eclipse attacks][topic eclipse attacks].  See
  [Newsletter #123][news123 headers] for the description of Eclair
  originally supporting DNS-based header retrieval.  Other software
  using BitcoinHeaders.net may need to upgrade to the new API soon.

- [LDK #2781][] and [#2688][ldk #2688] update support for sending and
  receiving [blinded payments][topic rv routing], particularly multi-hop
  blinded paths, as well as complying with the requirement that
  [offers][topic offers] always include at least one blinded hop.

- [LDK #2723][] adds support for sending [onion messages][topic onion
  messages] using _direct connections_.  In the case where a sender
  can't find a path to the receiver but knows the receiver's network
  address (e.g. because the receiver is a public node that has
  gossiped their IP address), the sender can simply open a direct peer
  connection to the receiver, send the message, and then optionally
  close the connection.  This allows onion messages to work well even if
  only a small number of nodes on the network support them (which is the
  case now).

> - [BIPs #1502][] updates BIP2 to allow any BIP to be written in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [BIPs #1504][] updates BIP2 to allow any BIP to be written in
```

https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1504
